	The goal of this project was, given an existing program written in the programming language Java, to edit and change the program to allow for threads called reader and writer to accomplish certain tasks. Only one writer thread was to be allowed to write at any given moment, while many reader threads could be allowed to read at any given moment. Additionally, one type of thread was not allowed to work while another type of thread was being executed (readers had to wait while writers were writing and vice versa). The two classes that were changed to accomplish the goals of the assignment were PG2ATC and Database. The other two classes, Reader and Writer, did not need to be changed for the project.                                                                                                                    
	The changes made to the class PG2ATC were relatively minor. This class was responsible for starting the threads and determining the overall amount of threads running in the program. The values for the static variables NUM_OF_READERS and NUM_OF_WRITERS were initially set to 1 in the program file that was given and were changed to be 10 for the variable NUM_OF_READERS and 4 for the variable NUM_OF_WRITERS. These numbers were given in the instructions for the project and were responsible for the total number of readers and writers started by the for loops in the class.                                                                                                                
	The class that had the most amount of changes among the four classes was the Database class. This class was responsible for defining many of the methods that were used by the Reader and Writer classes. The first changes that were made to the class began with the creation of a queue called writerQueue (line 102). This main purpose of the queue was to help track the number of requests by writers. This allowed for an easier time when determining which thread should run at any given moment. This process was accomplished by adding an extra condition to the while loop for the method startRead(). The condition (line 27) checked to see if the writer queue is not empty. If the queue is not empty, a reader would have to wait to begin reading. This condition was added to allow for writers to be able to write without having to continuously wait for readers to finish reading.                                                                          
	A change was needed in the method startWrite() to enable the writer queue to be added to. This change (line 69) added a line that would fill the writer queue with a “1”. It was important that the change was made before the while loop executed when the method was called. If the change was made after the while loop, writers could become stuck in the while loop for a long period of time. This would largely defeat the purpose of the writer queue. An additional change was needed to the method endWrite() that would allow for the queue to be emptied after a writer had finished writing. This change added a line (line 86) that would take out one integer from the writer queue. Unlike the change made to the method startWrite(), this change did not need to be implemented in any specific place in the method endWrite(), as there was no while loop in this method. 
